The Innovation Co-Lab provides learning opportunities, open studios, equipment resources, and mentorship to the Duke Community in support of teaching, learning, and researching with technology.

The Innovation Co-Lab is a Duke Community resource for learning about, experimenting, and building with technology. We believe that Serious Play can lead to surprising results and inspiring outcomes, and have built a program to encourage and support this mentality. This includes broadly accessible learning opportunities through our Roots Program and Office Hours, four campus Studios with open access to equipment and technology support, medical-caliber equipment and services supporting the most sophisticated clinical and research needs, and deep mentorship and support opportunities for prototyping your brilliant (or wild) ideas.

At the Innovation Co-Lab, we try to not only provide resources, mentorship, and support for student creativity with technology, but also build a community and environment that supports this kind of work.  To that end, we have a living set of principles that help communicate that ethos:

The Co-Lab is for everyone at Duke, regardless of experience, field of study, background, race, gender, sexual orientation, ability, disability, or neurodivergence.
Everyone can make things and creativity isn’t reserved for "creative people".
Everything is an experiment. Play, flow, analyze, repeat. Don’t try to create and analyze at the same time.
Skills tend to transfer. Previous projects have a funny way of informing unrelated future work.
The value of “Hello world” can't be understated – 3d printed trinkets often lead directly to published research.
Ask a good question today.
The work you do when you should be working is the work you should be doing.
Duke is a special place with extraordinary resources. Use them all.
There is great value in saying yes.

Michael got his start with OIT as a student employee working in the Multimedia Project Studio during his time as a Duke student.  After graduating with a degree in Math and Visual Arts, he joined OIT full-time to run the MPS, taking it from a basement in Old Chem to a beautiful new space in Bostock Library.  A few years later, he was tapped to begin working on this idea for the Co-Lab, and has building the program and team ever since.  A few highlights over the years have been the opening of the TEC, leading development of key pieces of infrastructure like Shiftr and Pathways, and always being delighted and surprised in the creativity and drive of students to build amazing things.  Outside of Duke, he's staying plenty busy with his daughter and twin boys, and trying to find any fleeting moments for creative expression through design, woodworking, or hammering incoherently on the piano with the kids.