
1
What is the Co-Lab about?  
The Innovation Co-Lab provides learning opportunities, open studios, equipment resources, and 
mentorship to the Duke Community in support of teaching, learning, and researching with technology. 
What is the Co-Lab? 
The Innovation Co-Lab is a Duke Community resource for learning about, experimenting, and building 
with technology. We believe that Serious Play can lead to surprising results and inspiring outcomes, and 
we have built a program to encourage and support this mentality. This includes broadly accessible 
learning opportunities through our Roots Program and Office Hours, four campus Studios with open 
access to equipment and technology support, medical-caliber equipment and services supporting the 
most sophisticated clinical and research needs, and deep mentorship and support opportunities for 
prototyping your brilliant (or wild) ideas.  
At the Innovation Co-Lab, we try to not only provide resources, mentorship, and support for student 
creativity with technology, but also build a community and environment that supports this kind of work.  
To that end, we have a living set of principles that help communicate that ethos: 
The Co-Lab is for everyone at Duke, regardless of experience, field of study, background, race, gender, 
sexual orientation, ability, disability, or neurodivergence. Everyone can make things and creativity isn’t 
reserved for "creative people". Everything is an experiment. Play, flow, analyze, repeat. Don’t try to 
create and analyze at the same time. Skills tend to transfer. Previous projects have a funny way of 
informing unrelated future work. The value of “Hello world” can't be understated – 3d printed trinkets 
often lead directly to published research. Ask a good question today. The work you do when you should 
be working is the work you should be doing. Duke is a special place with extraordinary resources. Use 
them all. There is great value in saying yes. 
What locations does the Co-Lab have? 
The Co-Lab makerspaces are found in three locations across campus: Technology Engagement Center 
(West), Rubenstein Arts Center (Central) and Lilly Library (East). These makerspaces are open to all in 
the Duke Community regardless of experience or interest. Additionally, the Co-Lab also houses the 
Multimedia Project Studio, the perfect place to experience Virtual Reality. 
What is the TEC studio? 
What does the TEC Studio offer?  
The TEC Studio is our flagship (main) location on West Campus. Generally, when people ask about the 
Co-Lab, they mean TEC. This space features a large variety of resources ranging from hand tools to 
digital fabrication equipment, meeting rooms and workspaces. 
The many resources available at the TEC studio are supported by knowledgeable staff providing 
expertise and consultation to meet your project or learning goals. The studio is open to all of the Duke 
community regardless of background, experience, affiliation (student, staff, faculty), or use case 
(personal and academic). The Co-Lab at the TEC is also the home to most of our Roots workshops and 
technical office hours.   
Where to Find the TEC Studio? 
Telcom Building 2 Telcom Dr.  
What are the TEC’s hours? 
Open 24/7 (card access only after 5pm). All tools and equipment located in the Workspace are available 
at all times regardless of staffing. All tools and equipment located in the Garage are only available during 
staffed hours. Additional tools are available for reservation (see Reservations & Loans).  
What meeting spaces does the TEC have? 
TEC Conference Room  
The TEC Conference Room (room 132) has tables and seats about 20. It is a Zoom room and has a large 
TV so you can share your screen. The walls are whiteboard material so you can ideate or write notes on 
the wall.  To reserve this room, please contact us at colab-ops@duke.edu. 
TEC Project Room  
The TEC Project Room (room 131) has one table and seats 6. It is a Zoom room and has a mounted TV 
where you can share your screen. The walls are whiteboard material so you can ideate or write notes on 
the wall. This room cannot be reserved ahead of time and must be reserved on the touchpad outside of 
the room. 
What is the layout of the TEC (Co-Lab)? 
Where is the bathroom? The bathrooms are along the wall opposite the main entrance, past the Rotunda (central space). They 
are further into the TEC than the Workshop and the large Conference Room, with the Men’s on the left 
and the Women’s on the right (directions based on standing at the main entrance).  
Where are the Printers?  All 3D printers can be found along the leftmost wall of the Workshop, where three rows of printers 
make up the entire wall.  
A regular paper printer can also be found near the Project Room OIT TEC 131, right near the entrance to 
the Rotunda (central space). 
Where is the Workshop?  The Workshop is directly straight from the main entrance. It contains workbenches, Desktops, and all 
the physical tools and machines available for use, such as 3D Printers, the mill, waterjet, etc. This is 
where Co-Lab workers can be found. Workers can help with tool questions and machinery use.  
Where is the Conference Room?  The Conference Room is on the right side of the TEC building/Rotunda (based on standing at the main 
entrance).  
CNC Router Epilog Laser Cutter/Engraver  
Manual Mill/Drill Power Tools. 
What equipment can I reserve at the TEC? 
The equipment below is available at the TEC through our reservation request form: 
Ultimaker (although generally available at all times, printers can be reserved for projects) 
Embroidery Machine  
Revopoint Pop 2 3D Scanner 
How do I reserve a tool?  
For any reservation or question regarding reservations, you can go here: 
https://duke.qualtrics.com/jfe/form/SV_1YsnM5UkCv2Lnwx  
How do I get started?  
Getting Started with 3D Printing 
Send a job to the 3D printer with 3dprinteros 
Get free 3D models with Thingiverse 
What related workshops are there?  
Self-Paced: Basic Laser Cutting Make a Sticker Basic 3D Printing 
Instructor-Led: lllustrator for Laser Cutting Intro to Sewing Intro to 3D Modeling (CAD & CAM) 
What are the Roots Workshops? 
What is the Roots Program? 
The Innovation Co-Lab's Roots Program is our series of technology learning experiences, including both 
live and self-paced workshops. The program is free, non-credit, open to anyone at Duke (student, staff, 
faculty). With a focus on technology and hands-on experiences, we offer a wide variety of workshops 
ranging from intro to programing to designing and creating your own silicone molds to sewing your first 
tote-bag and more. You can view, register, and access all of our learning experiences on Pathways – a 
platform for discovering, managing, and tracking your co-curricular education at Duke. A few highlights 
and upcoming opportunities are listed below, but be sure to visit Pathways for much more.  
View all Co-Lab Opportunities on Pathways: FUNCTION 
What are personalized classes?  
Want to create a fun, educational tech experience for your group?  Don’t see a current class that fits the 
bill? Let’s chat to come up with a personalized class that we can do for you! Personalized classes we’ve 
done in the past include sticker-making, sewing plushies, and rapid prototyping.  We can't accommodate 
Who are the Student Developers? 
Check out our students' expertise below to find the best fit for your needs. For full time developers' 
help, check out our Team's page (by appointment only).  
Which Student Developers are currently available? 
FUNCTION 
What are the different student developer's expertise? 
Kylie Greenwald: Software development(Python, Flask, Java), Databases (PostgreSQL), Front-end 
development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React, Swift), Design (UI/UX, Figma), DevOps (Docker, Git) 
Kelvin Bueno: Expertise: Front End development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, react), Software development 
(node.js, python), Databases (MongoDB) 
Eileen Cai: Expertise: Front End Development (HTML, JavaScript, React.js), Software Development (Ruby, 
Rails), Databases (Postgresql), DevOps (Docker, Git) 
Judy Chen: Expertise: Software development (ruby, rails), Front End development, and devOps 
Olivia Chen: Expertise: Front End development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript) and Software development (ruby 
on rails) 
Johnny Cortez: Expertise: Front End development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React), Design (UI, UX), 
Software development (Java, Python) 
Alice Hu: Expertise: Software development (python, java, ruby, rails), Front End development (HTML, 
CSS, JavaScript), devOps 
Hung Le: Expertise: Software development (Python), Databases (mySQL), DevOps (Docker, Git), Front 
End development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, React.js) 
Raul Ng: Expertise: Hardware (Arduino), Software development (Ruby on Rails), Databases (mongoDB, 
mySQL), DevOps (Docker, Git) 
Alexander Pieroni: Expertise: Software dev (Python, C, React Native, Ruby, Rails), Databases (MongoDB, 
PostgreSQL), Front-end dev (HTML, CSS, JS, Tailwind CSS, React, Typescript), Design (UI/UX, Figma), 
DevOps (Docker, Git), Tools (Photogrammetry, ArcGIS, Metashape) 
Alisha Zhang: Expertise: Front End development (HTML, CSS, JavaScript), Design (UI, UX), Software 
development (Java, Python) 
What are Grants? 
Got an idea for a technology project, but need a little help? 
Innovation Grants provide students with small seed funding and one-on-one mentorship to help you 
develop your project, from zero to a fully realized idea.   
The Innovation Grant program supports: 
Individual or team-based extracurricular or personal projects  
Projects stemming from a faculty-supported Independent Study  
Pre-entrepreneurial projects from zero to prototype or proof-of-concept 
How do I apply for grants? 
Students will complete an application outlining a project involving innovative use of technology. This 
could be a software project, hardware project, an art project, or something entirely different. As long as 
there's a technology component, we want to hear about it. This application will include project timeline, 
team members, resources required, technical/expert assistance required, as well as a budget request. 
Budgets will be commensurate with project scope and complexity, experience, team size, materials cost, 
and project duration.  
What are the requirements for a grant? 
Applications will be accepted on a rolling basis, and reviewed by the Co-Lab. Proposals will be evaluated 
on the following criteria: 
Right Team 
Do you have the people on board to be able to carry out this project? What experience do the team 
members bring to this project idea? Do you have a cross-functional team that can handle the various 
aspects of this project? 
Right Size  
Is this project achievable with this team in a reasonable amount of time? Do you have specific goals and 
milestones set that are realistic?    
Right Budget 
Is the Co-Lab seed fund the right fit for this project? Typically, we support projects that average under 
$1000. Is the funding request appropriate and sufficient for the project idea? 
Right Idea 
Does this project serve as a good educational/learning experience for the team members? How does 
this project improve the experience of the users who will interact with it? What are the 
innovative/creative/challenging ideas being presented in this project?   
After review, we will typically set up an introductory meeting to discuss the project. Applications can 
either be accepted, returned for additional information or revisions, or declined. 
What happens after acceptance? 
Once a project is accepted, the team member(s) will meet with a representative from the Co-Lab to 
establish a project plan at a Kickoff Meeting. We will discuss the budget and the best way to issue those 
funds (sometimes we provide it all up front, other times we do not). We'll set up a regular schedule to 
meet throughout the project timeline to overcome obstacles and celebrate successes. We’ll set up a 
page for you on our site to provide project information, updates, photos, and more. Grant recipients will 
Prototyping 
We use rapid prototyping technologies including 3D printing, laser cutting, and more to generate 
prototypes and iterate on designs. 
Manufacturing 
We help determine the optimal path to small scale manufacturing by helping with material selection, 
sourcing, and manufacturing method selection. 
How does DesignHub works? 
DesignHub is a subsidized service provided to the Duke community by the Innovation Co-Lab. We will 
absorb the cost of labor up to a maximum of 20 hours. Beyond this consultation time, the service is cost 
recovery and you will be billed for time beyond the initial 20 hours as well as at-cost material charges for 
any materials necessary to fabricate the prototypes (if fabrication is part of the project). We try to scope 
our projects to stay well within the twenty hours of design and build time. Most projects will leverage 
3D printing or other digital fabrication tools, and pricing for these tools can be viewed on the Bluesmith 
page. 
How do I get started with DesignHub?  
If you have a problem and an idea for how to solve it, you're halfway there! Working through the list 
below will help get your project moving. 
Identify a Problem 
The world is abound with problems. Even small optimizations can lead to drastic improvements in 
performance. Pick a problem that is personal to you and we can help you solve it. 
Work together to Solve the Problem  
Our staff will help you turn your vision into a tangible outcome. Try to think of a few potential solutions. 
Often the prototyping process will be iterative and adjustments will need to be made but we will look to 
you as the subject matter expert that guides our work. Frame your problem and solution in terms of 
working backwards from the desired outcome you would like to achieve.  
How do I schedule a consultation with Design Hub?  
Reach out to our team by emailing designhub@duke.edu or heading to our Booking Calendar to get 
started. You will be introduced to your student designers who will work with you through the course of 
your project. They will assess your idea in relation to the realities of design and building. You will serve 
as the subject matter expert for the project and work in tandem with our design engineers. At this point 
your work will begin and with any luck, together we will have solved a problem! 
 
What is the Rubenstein Arts Center? 
What does the Rubenstein Arts Center offer? 
Our Co-Lab studio at the Rubenstein Arts Center (Ruby) is the best place for learners and makers who 
love the intersectionality of Art and Tech. 
What is Lilly Library? 
What does Lilly Library offer?  
The Co-Lab studio at Lilly library is the perfect place for First Year students to get started with 3D 
printing. 
Our Co-Lab studio at the Lilly Library (East Campus) is the smallest of our three (3) makerspaces here on 
Duke Campus. It has 3D printers and tools to experiment with. The Co-Lab at Lilly is open for free and to 
all, regardless of background, experience and affiliation (student, staff, faculty).  
Where is the Lilly Studio?  
Lilly Library 1348 Campus Dr. 
What are Lilly Library’s Hours? 
The Lilly Library hours:  
Monday through Thursday: 9am-7pm  
Friday: 9am-6pm  
Saturday: closed  
Sunday: 1pm-5pm 
All tools are available while the library is open. 
Equipment & tools found in the Lilly Studio 
Ultimaker S3 
Hand Tools  
Tools at this location are available while the library is open. 
What is Perkins/the Bostock Library? 
What does Perkins/the Bostock Library offer?  
Perkins/Bostock has the Multimedia Project Studio (MPS)  
What is the Multimedia Project Studio (MPS)? 
The MPS Studio is Duke's home for developing and experiencing Virtual Reality (VR), and Augmented 
Reality (AR). 
The MPS features resources for VR and game development, 3D modeling and object scanning, as well as 
video and photo editing. The MPS is free and open to anyone at Duke, regardless of experience, 
affiliation (student/staff/faculty), or field of study. Staff members are on hand to orient you to the space 
and help you get started. 
Where is the MPS? 
You can find the MPS studio in Room 006 on the lower level of Perkins/Bostock Library, down the hall 
from the Link. 
Perkins Library 411 Chapel Dr. 
When can I use the MPS equipment? 
Side rooms and some resources are only available during staffed hours.  
What is at the MPS? 
Main Studio 
High End PC VR workstations 
VR Headsets (staffed hours only) iMacs 
Dedicated VR Dev Suite (Reservable) 
High End PC VR workstation VR/AR Headsets 
VR Movement Suite (in progress) 
High End PC VR workstation VR Treadmill 
VR Exercise Bike (coming soon) 
Software 
Game engines: Unity, Unreal 3D Modeling: Maya, 3dsMax, Blender, Sketchup 
Adobe Creative Suite: Premier, Photoshop, Illustrator 
What equipment can I reserve at the MPS?  
The equipment below is available through reservation or in consultation with our staff: 
Quest1 VR headsets  
Revopoint Pop 2 3D Scanner  
Magic Leap 2 AR headset 
What rooms can I reserve at the MPS?  
VR Dev Suite VR Movement Suite 
Visit the lab and talk to our consultants or email us for further inquiry 
What other services does the MPS offer?  
The MPS also offers services for faculty and groups: 
VR Development for faculty-led projects (email us for more information) 
Tours/VR experiences for Academic courses or other groups 
Our studios are equipped with many tools and resources to allow users to create using 3D printing, laser 
cutting, milling, soldering, and much more on the makerspace side as well as unity and adobe cloud 
amongst others on the software side. We continuously improve our selections, so make sure to check 
back on what we have to offer every now and again. 
Request a Tour or Custom Workshop 
How do I request a tour? 
TEC Tour: This tour will be a short visit to our studio space and an introduction to our equipment, 
including 3D printers, laser cutters, and more.  Additionally, we'll walk through our Bluesmith studio, 
where we make precise parts out of high-quality materials for medical, research, and other professional 
applications.   
MPS Tour: This tour will show you around our VR studio. We'll introduce you to our equipment designed 
specifically for creating VR experiences, including our computers, VR headsets, scanners, and more. 
 
